resources/day1.md, before:

# Day 1: Course Introduction and the Who, What, How Framework 

Date: Monday, Oct 30th, 2023 

## Lecture Topics

- Introductions (instructors and students)
- [Course introduction](../slides/intro.pdf) (mechanics, tools, projects, objectives, topics)
- [The Who, What, How Framework for Empirical Research](../slides/wwh.pdf)
- Formulating research questions (Who)
- Design Science (What)
- Selecting Research Methods (How)

## Lecture Objectives
By the end of this first day and first project you will be able to understand and articulate the strengths and limitations of selecting different methods for conducting empirical research, the different kinds of contributions these methods will lead to, and you will have experience formulating and critiquing research questions.

## Assigned Work
- [Project 1](../activities/project1.md)

## Assigned Readings
- See slides for each topic for assigned readings.

**Optional readings/podcasts:**

- Chapter 1 of [Software Engineering at Google](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/software-engineering-at/9781492082781/) By Titus Winters, Tom Manshreck and Hyrum Wright, O'Reilly Media 
- [Exploding Software Engineering Myths](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/blog/exploding-software-engineering-myths/) By Janie Chang, Writer, Microsoft Research
- See general readings on the course home page

Commit message:

Added a draft of project 2 and some other updates

resources/day1.md, after:

# Day 1: Course Introduction and the Who, What, How Framework 

Date: Monday, Oct 30th, 2023 

## Lecture Topics

- Introductions (instructors and students)
- [Course introduction](../slides/intro.pdf) (mechanics, tools, projects, objectives, topics)
- [The Who, What, How Framework for Empirical Research](../slides/wwh.pdf)
- Formulating research questions (Who)
- Design Science (What)
- Selecting Research Methods (How)

## Lecture Objectives
By the end of this first day and first project you will be able to understand and articulate the strengths and limitations of selecting different methods for conducting empirical research, the different kinds of contributions these methods will lead to, and you will have experience formulating and critiquing research questions.

## Assigned Work
- [Project 1](../activities/project1.md)

## Assigned Readings
- See Project 1 and also the slides for additional readings. 

**Optional readings/podcasts:**

- Chapter 1 of [Software Engineering at Google](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/software-engineering-at/9781492082781/) By Titus Winters, Tom Manshreck and Hyrum Wright, O'Reilly Media 
- [Exploding Software Engineering Myths](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/blog/exploding-software-engineering-myths/) By Janie Chang, Writer, Microsoft Research
- See general readings on the course home page
