resources/Lecture1.md, before:

# Day 1: Course Introduction and the Who, What, How Framework 

Date: Monday, Oct 30th, 2023 

## Lecture Topics

- Introductions (instructors and students)
- Course introduction (mechanics, tools, projects, objectives, topics)
- The Who, What, How Framework for Empirical Research
- Formulating research questions (Who)
- Design Science (What)
- Selecting Research Methods (How)

## Lecture Objectives
By the end of this first day and first project you will be able to understand and articulate the strengths and limitations of selecting different methods for conducting empirical research, the different kinds of contributions these methods will lead to, and you will have experience formulating and critiquing research questions.

## Assigned Work
- [Project 1](../activities/project1.md)

## Readings
- See Project 1 
- See lecture slides for additional readings. 
- Chapter 1 of [Software Engineering at Google](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/software-engineering-at/9781492082781/) By Titus Winters, Tom Manshreck and Hyrum Wright, O'Reilly Media 
- [Exploding Software Engineering Myths](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/blog/exploding-software-engineering-myths/) By Janie Chang, Writer, Microsoft Research
- [Is this really science,The Semantic Webber’s Guide to Evaluating Research Contributions](https://www.merlin.uzh.ch/publication/show/9417), by Abraham Bernstein and Natasha Noy, 2014. 
- See general readings on the course home page

Commit message:

Added more readings for lecture 1

resources/Lecture1.md, after:

# Day 1: Course Introduction and the Who, What, How Framework 

Date: Monday, Oct 30th, 2023 

## Lecture Topics

- Introductions (instructors and students)
- Course introduction (mechanics, tools, projects, objectives, topics)
- The Who, What, How Framework for Empirical Research
- Formulating research questions (Who)
- Design Science (What)
- Selecting Research Methods (How)

## Lecture Objectives
By the end of this first day and first project you will be able to understand and articulate the strengths and limitations of selecting different methods for conducting empirical research, the different kinds of contributions these methods will lead to, and you will have experience formulating and critiquing research questions.

## Assigned Work
- [Project 1](../activities/project1.md)

## Readings
- See Project 1 
- See lecture slides for additional readings. 
- Chapter 1 of [Software Engineering at Google](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/software-engineering-at/9781492082781/) By Titus Winters, Tom Manshreck and Hyrum Wright, O'Reilly Media 
- [Exploding Software Engineering Myths](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/blog/exploding-software-engineering-myths/) By Janie Chang, Writer, Microsoft Research
- [Is this really science,The Semantic Webber’s Guide to Evaluating Research Contributions](https://www.merlin.uzh.ch/publication/show/9417), by Abraham Bernstein and Natasha Noy, 2014. 
- [Selecting a research method by Easterbrook et al.](http://www.cs.utoronto.ca/~sme/papers/2007/SelectingEmpiricalMethods.pdf)
- [Developing a grounded theory to explain the practices of self-organizing Agile teams](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10664-011-9161-0) by Hoda, Rashina & Noble, James & Marshall, Stuart. (2012).  Empirical Software Engineering - ESE. 17. 1-31.
- [Methodology Matters by McGrath](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780080515748500194) (access through UVic library)
- [Challenges in Program Comprehension and Software Repository Mining, Talk by Amy Ko](https://medium.com/bits-and-behavior/grand-challenges-in-program-comprehension-and-software-repository-mining-my-keynote-on-7bf2cfc182a5) (Video)
- [The promises and perils of mining GitHub](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2597073.2597074) by Eirini Kalliamvakou, Georgios Gousios, Kelly Blincoe, Leif Singer Daniel M Germán, Daniela E Damian, MSR 2014
